Add a cookbook about dealing with multiple channels in console commands (#14654)
Sylius/Sylius: docs/cookbook/cli/handle-multiple-channels-in-cli.rst

Handle multiple channels in CLI
===============================

When we use directly or indirectly any service depending on a channel context, we are not able to define which channel we want to use, when there are more than two.
Your primary goal should be to avoid such cases, but if you have to, there is a way to do it.

What is our goal?
-----------------

To accomplish this task, we have to create a custom channel context available only from the CLI context. But this concrete channel context cannot only return a channel,
but also has to allow to pass a channel code as an argument (which we will get from the console command). This way, we can use the channel context in our services.

1. Custom Channel Context
-------------------------

First, we need to create a custom channel context. Let's remind our requirements:

    * available only from the CLI

>     * there must be away to pass in a channel code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * there must be a way to pass a channel code
```

Our suggested solution is the following:

.. code-block:: php

    // src/Channel/Context/CliBasedChannelContext.php
    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace App\Channel\Context;

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    use Sylius\Component\Channel\Context\ChannelNotFoundException;
    use Sylius\Component\Channel\Model\ChannelInterface;
    use Sylius\Component\Channel\Repository\ChannelRepositoryInterface;

    final class CliBasedChannelContext implements CliBasedChannelContextInterface
    {
        private ?string $channelCode = null;

        public function __construct(
            private ChannelRepositoryInterface $channelRepository,
        ) {
        }

        public function setChannelCode(?string $channelCode): void
        {
            $this->channelCode = $channelCode;
        }

        public function getChannelCode(): ?string
        {

>             return $this-channelCode;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            return $this->channelCode;
```
:D

        }

        public function getChannel(): ChannelInterface
        {

>             if ('cli' !== PHP_SAPI || null === $this->channelCode) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            if ('cli' !== \PHP_SAPI || null === $this->channelCode) {
```

Author: Why do you need \ before constant :D? The possibility of another PHP_SAPI in the same namespace what the class is minimal 🤔.

Reviewer: The main reason is that this is a part of our coding standard :P
https://github.com/SyliusLabs/CodingStandard/blob/master/ecs.php#L164

And I also believe backslash should work faster as the interpreter knows exactly where the const is defined. So it should skip looking for it in our code.

Author: As this is only an example, and differences are minimal (and we agreed on Slack) I'm resolving it :D.

Reviewer: ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13316080/209161060-96b2e8a2-684f-45cf-b84a-153b09308863.png)

Author: xD

                throw new ChannelNotFoundException();
            }

            $channel = $this->channelRepository->findOneByCode($this->channelCode);

            if (null === $channel) {
                throw new ChannelNotFoundException();
            }

            return $channel;
        }
    }

    // src/Channel/Context/CliBasedChannelContextInterface.php;

>     <?php

Reviewer: WDYT to have it as a separate code block?

    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventDispatcherInterface;

    #[AsCommand('app:dummy', description: 'Dummy command')]
    class DummyCommand extends Command
    {
        public function __construct (
            private CliBasedChannelContextInterface $cliBasedChannelContext,
            private EventDispatcherInterface $dispatcher,
        ) {
            parent::__construct();
        }

        protected function configure(): void
        {
            $this
                ->addOption('channel', 'c', InputOption::VALUE_OPTIONAL, 'Channel code')
            ;
        }

        protected function execute(InputInterface $input, OutputInterface $output): int
        {
            if (null !== $channelCode = $input->getOption('channel')) {
                $this->cliBasedChannelContext->setChannelCode($channelCode);
            }

            // it isn't important what happens inside the event subscriber.
            // It just gets channel from the channel context service
            // and prints its name
            $this->dispatcher->dispatch(new DummyEvent());

            return Command::SUCCESS;
        }
    }

> Result is the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result could be the following:
```

as we don't provide any implementation for it :grinning:

Author: I changed this line to `The output of the example is following:`. I resolve it, if you have any suggestions feel free to unresolve :D.

Handle multiple channels in CLI
===============================

When we use directly or indirectly any service depending on a channel context, we are not able to define which channel we want to use, when there are more than two.
Your primary goal should be to avoid such cases, but if you have to, there is a way to do it.

What is our goal?
-----------------

> To accomplish this task, we have to create a custom channel context available only from the CLI context. But this concrete channel context cannot only return a channel,
> but also has to allow to pass a channel code as an argument (which we will get from the console command). This way, we can use the channel context in our services.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have to create a custom channel context available only from the CLI context. This channel context should allow setting a channel code (which we will do inside the console command). This way, we can use the channel context in our services.
```

1. Custom Channel Context
-------------------------

> First, we need to create a custom channel context. Let's remind our requirements:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, we need to create a channel context. Let's remind the requirements:
```

    {
        private ?string $channelCode = null;

        public function __construct(
            private ChannelRepositoryInterface $channelRepository,
        ) {
        }

        public function setChannelCode(?string $channelCode): void
        {
            $this->channelCode = $channelCode;
        }

        public function getChannelCode(): ?string
        {
            return $this->channelCode;
        }

        public function getChannel(): ChannelInterface
        {
            if ('cli' !== PHP_SAPI || null === $this->channelCode) {
                throw new ChannelNotFoundException();
            }

            $channel = $this->channelRepository->findOneByCode($this->channelCode);

            if (null === $channel) {
                throw new ChannelNotFoundException();
            }

            return $channel;
        }
    }

.. code-block:: php

    // src/Channel/Context/CliBasedChannelContextInterface.php;
    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace App\Channel\Context;

    use Sylius\Component\Channel\Context\ChannelContextInterface;

    interface CliBasedChannelContextInterface extends ChannelContextInterface
    {

>         public function setChannelCode(?string $channelCode): void;
> 
>         public function getChannelCode(): ?string;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        public function setChannelCode(?string $channelCode): void;
```
No point in adding a getter

Author: It can be used to check whether a channel code exists to prevent overriding. And still, it's just an example which might be adjusted to the concrete case.

    }

Now, we have to configure our custom channel context as a service:

.. code-block:: yaml

    # config/services.yaml
    services:
        App\Channel\Context\CliBasedChannelContextInterface:
            class: App\Channel\Context\CliBasedChannelContext
            arguments:
                - '@sylius.repository.channel'
            tags:
                - { name: 'sylius.context.channel', priority: -256 }

2. Usage of the new custom channel context in a console command
---------------------------------------------------------------

> Now, we can use our custom channel context in our console command. For proof of our concept we will create a DummyCommand,
> which will take a channel code as an option and will dispatch a dummy event. This event is handled by an event subscriber using
> the channel context to get the channel and print its name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For our example, we will create a DummyCommand which will take a channel code as an option
and dispatch a dummy event. This event is handled by a subscriber using
the channel context to print the channel's name.
```

    use Symfony\Component\Console\Attribute\AsCommand;
    use Symfony\Component\Console\Command\Command;
    use Symfony\Component\Console\Input\InputInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\Console\Input\InputOption;
    use Symfony\Component\Console\Output\OutputInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventDispatcherInterface;

    #[AsCommand('app:dummy', description: 'Dummy command')]
    class DummyCommand extends Command
    {
        public function __construct (
            private CliBasedChannelContextInterface $cliBasedChannelContext,
            private EventDispatcherInterface $dispatcher,
        ) {
            parent::__construct();
        }

        protected function configure(): void
        {
            $this
                ->addOption('channel', 'c', InputOption::VALUE_OPTIONAL, 'Channel code')
            ;
        }

        protected function execute(InputInterface $input, OutputInterface $output): int
        {
            if (null !== $channelCode = $input->getOption('channel')) {
                $this->cliBasedChannelContext->setChannelCode($channelCode);
            }

>             // it isn't important what happens inside the event subscriber.
>             // It just gets channel from the channel context service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            // The subscriber just gets a channel from the channel context
```

            // and prints its name
            $this->dispatcher->dispatch(new DummyEvent());

            return Command::SUCCESS;
        }
    }

The output of the example is following:

.. code-block:: bash

    /app $ bin/console app:dummy -c MAGIC_WEB
    Hi! I am Dummy Event Subscriber. I am using Channel Context.

>     Your channel name is: Magic Web Channel
>     /app $ bin/console app:dummy -c FASHION_WEB

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Your channel name is: Magic Web Channel

    /app $ bin/console app:dummy -c FASHION_WEB
```
A bit more clarity

Author: But this is an exact output from console :D.

Reviewer 2: I'd leave it as suggested, but you could also split it into 2 blocks, either way, it's easier to read.
